That's it for this module. You learned that when moving from a classic node application which I don't
mean in the sense of how you built it in the past, so simply just an application where you render
the views in the server, that is a classic application because it is what we started with in this course.
So if you move from such a node application to a rest API, you'll learn that most of the server side
code does not change,
you work with validation files and so on in exactly the same way as you did with
well the classic approach. Only request and response data changes because there you send json data,
you don't render any views.
You also got more http methods available which you can use to construct your endpoints, your API endpoints
and the most important takeaway is that the rest API server does not care about the client.
The requests are handled in isolation,
so every request is treated as if it would arrive for the first time.
So we don't use sessions, the server, the rest
API does not store any sessions,
it does not store any client data.
Now that has important implications for authentication. Due to no sessions being used,
the authentication works differently.
Each request needs to be able to send some piece of data that proves that the request is authenticated
and that is this json web token which we generated and worked with in this module.
It's a common way of storing some authentication information in a token, a piece of data which you send
to the client, which you store on the client and then which then gets attached to every outgoing request
to a protected resource.
Json web tokens are signed by the server and only the server can validate them by using a private
key which is only known to the server,
hence you can't fake or manipulate tokens on the client and that's it for this module.
We now had a detailed look at building rest
APIs, a common form of node application which you need and a lot of scenarios and now you have already
a very broad toolset which allows you to build extremely versatile and powerful node applications.
We're still not done with the course though,
there's more to come.